You're watching from StreamFlex app.
Happy New Year's, ladies.
Gabby, it's New Year's Eve.
Enough reading.
But, Mom, I'm almost done.
The teen party? I've laid out
your best clothes. Come get ready.
Can I have my book back?
- Thank you.
- Come on.
Keep working left, Troy. Got a guard in the
championship game we're expecting. You'll torch him!
- By going left?
- Yeah.
- He looks middle, you take it downtown.
- OK, like this?
- That's it, man. Sweet.
- OK, that's it. That's money.
- Let's see that in the game. - Boys?
- You'll see that in the game.
- Don't worry about me. - Did we really
fly all this way to play more basketball?
Yeah.
It's the last night of vacation.
The party, remember?
Right, the party.
The party. New Year's Eve.
Troy, they have a kids' party downstairs
in the Freestyle club.
- Kids' party?
- Young adults. Now go, shower up.
Come on. One more.
- Last one.
- Real quick. Real quick.
There we go.
That's the way to end it.
Howdy, ma'am.
All right! How about that
for a couple of snowboarders?
Yeah!
Who's gonna rock the house next?
- I can't sing. No, you go.
- And you!
Yeah, come on.
I don't sing. I can't sing.
No, guys!
You know what? Someday -
Someday you guys might thank me for this.
Or not.
Living in my own world
Didn't understand
That anything can happen
When you take a chance
I never believed in
What I couldn't see
I never opened my heart
To all the possibilities
- I know
- That something has changed
Never felt this way
And right here tonight
This could be the start of something new
It feels so right
To be here with you
And now, lookin' in your eyes
- I feel in my heart
- Feel in my heart
The start of something new
Oh, yeah
Now who'd have ever thought that
We'd both be here tonight
Yeah
- And the world looks so much brighter
- Brighter, brighter
- With you by my side
- By my side
I know that something has changed
Never felt this way
- I know it for real
- Real
This could be the start of something new
It feels so right to be here with you
And now, lookin' in your eyes
I feel in my heart
The start of something new
I never knew that it could happen
till it happened to me
Oh, yeah
I didn't know it before
but now it's easy to see
It's the start of something new
It feels so right to be here with you
And now, lookin' in your eyes
I feel in my heart
That it's the start of something new
It feels so right to be here with you
And now, lookin' in your eyes
- I feel in my heart
- Feel in my heart
The start of something new
- Troy.
- Gabriella.
But seriously, you have an amazing voice.
You're a singer, right?
Just church choir is all.
I tried a solo and nearly fainted.
- Really? Why is that?
- I took one look at all the people staring at me,
and next thing I knew I was staring
at the ceiling. End of solo career.
Well, with the way you sang tonight,
that's pretty hard to believe.
Well, that was the first time I've done
something like that. I mean, it was so cool.
- I know. Completely.
- You sounded like you've done a lot of singing too.
Yeah, sure. My shower head
is very impressed with me.
9, 8, 7,
6, 5, 4,
3, 2, 1!
I guess I'd better go find my mom
and wish her a happy New Year.
Yeah, me too. I mean, not your mom.
My mom. And dad.
- I'll call you. I'll call you tomorrow.
- Yeah.
Here, put your number in.
Here.
- You too.
- OK.
There you go.
Well, just so you know, singing with you was
the most fun I've had on this entire vacation.
So, where do you live?
Gabriella.
Wildcats sing along
Yeah, you really got it goin' on
Wildcats in the house
Everybody say it now
Wildcats everywhere
Wave your hands up in the air
That's the way we do it
Let's get to it
Time to show the world
Wildcats sing along
Yeah, you really got it goin' on
Wildcats in the house
Everybody say it now...
- Troy! How's it going, man?
- Hey, Chad, what's up?
- Hey, guys, happy New Year.
- Yeah!
- It's gonna be a happy Wildcat New Year, man...
- Troy, you're the man!
because in two weeks
we're going to the championships
with you leading us
to infinity and beyond.
- What team?
- Wildcats!
The ice princess has returned
from the North Pole.
You know, she probably spent the holidays
the way she always does.
- How's that?
- Shopping for mirrors.
Behold the zoo animals
heralding the new year. How tribal.
- Mom, my stomach...
- is always nervous on the first day at a new school.
You'll do great.
You always do.
And I made my company promise that I can't
be transferred again until you graduate.
I reviewed your impressive transcripts.
I expect your light will shine
very brightly here at East High.
I don't want to be the school's
freaky genius girl again.
Just be Gabriella.
This way.
Dude.
- Troy. Troy.
- Hey.
How's it going?
How are you?
- Do you remember the night before?
- No. Not at all.
All I remember is, like, pink jelly. I...
Excuse me.
- Hi, Troy.
- Hi.
I trust you all had splendid holidays.
Check the sign-up sheets in the lobby
for new activities, Mr Bolton.
Especially our winter musicale.
We will have singles auditions...
- You OK?
- Yeah.
...and pairs auditions for our two leads.
Mr Danforth, this is a place of learning,
not a hockey arena.
There is also a final sign-up for next week's
scholastic decathlon competition.
Chem Club president Taylor McKessie
can answer all of your questions about that.
Ah, the cellphone menace
has returned to our crucible of learning.
- Is it your phone?
- Sharpay and Ryan, cellphones.
And I will see you in detention.
We have zero tolerance
for cellphones in class,
so we will get to know each other
in detention. Cellphone.
And welcome to East High, Ms Montez.
Mr Bolton, I see your phone is involved.
So we will see you in detention as well.
No, no. That's not even a possibility,
Ms Darbus, Your Honour.
See? 'Cause we have basketball practice,
and Troy...
That will be 15 minutes for you too,
Mr Danforth. Count 'em.
That could be tough for Chad,
since he probably can't count that high.
Taylor McKessie, 15 minutes.
Shall the carnage continue?
Holidays are over, people. Way over.
Now, any more comments, questions?
- Jason.
- So, how were your holidays, Ms Darbus?
What?
- Sorry, man. See you in detention.
- See you later, man. It's all good.
She's crazy.
Hey.
- I don't...
- Believe it.
- Well, me...
- Either. But how?
My mom's company transferred her
here to Albuquerque.
I can't believe you live here. I looked for you
at the lodge on New Year's Day, but...
- I know. We had to leave first thing.
- Why are you whispering?
What? Oh... Well, my friends
know about the snowboarding.
I haven't quite told them
about the singing thing.
- Hey, what's up, Troy?
- Hey, what's up.
- Too much for them to handle?
- No, it was cool.
But, you know, my friends.
It's - It's not what I do.
That was, like, a - a different person.
So anyway, welcome to East High.
Now that you've met Ms Darbus,
I bet you just can't wait to sign up for that.
I won't be signing up for anything for a while.
I just wanna get to know the school.
But if you sign up,
I'd consider coming to the show.
- Yeah. Yeah. That's completely impossible.
- What's impossible, Troy?
I wouldn't think "impossible"
is even in your vocabulary.
So nice of you to
show our new classmate around.
Were you going to sign up too?
My brother and I have starred in all the school's
productions, and we really welcome newcomers.
There are a lot of supporting roles in the show.
I'm sure we could find something for you.
No, no, no. I was just looking
at all the bulletin boards.
Lots going on at this school. Wow.
Nice penmanship.
So, Troy. I missed you during vacation.
What'd you do?
You know, played basketball,
snowboarding, more basketball.
- When's the big game?
- Two weeks.
You are so dedicated.
Just like me.
I hope you come watch me in the musical.
Promise?
- Toodles!
- Toodles.
So, dude,
you know that school musical thing?
Is it true you get extra credit
just for auditioning?
- Who cares?
- It's always good to get extra credit,
for college...
Ever think LeBron James or Shaquille O'Neal
auditioned for their school musical?
- Maybe.
- Troy.
Look. The music in those shows isn't hip-hop,
okay, or rock, or anything essential to culture.
It's, like, show music.
It's all costumes and make-up and...
- Dude, it's frightening.
- Yeah, I know.
I just thought it might be a good laugh.
- Sharpay's kinda cute too.
- So is a mountain lion.
But you don't pet it.
All right, Wildcats! Pair up!
Let's go!
Come on!
Coach said to fake right and break left
Watch out for the pick
and keep an eye on defence
Gotta run the give-and-go
Take the ball to the hole
And don't be afraid
to shoot the outside "J"
Just keep your head in the game
And don't be afraid
to shoot the outside "J"
Just keep your head in the game
You gotta get your head in the game
We gotta get our head in the game
Come on, get your head in the game
You gotta get your head in the game
We gotta get our head in the game
Let's make sure that we get the rebound
'Cause when we get it
then the crowd'll go wild
A second chance,
gotta grab it and go
Maybe this time we'll hit the right notes
Wait a minute,
not the time and place
get my head in the game
Wait a minute,
Wait a minute, wait a minute
I gotta get my head in the game
You gotta get your head in the game
Come on, get my head in the game
I gotta get my head in the game
You gotta get your head in the game
Why am I feeling so wrong?
My head's in the game
but my heart's in the song
She makes this feel so right
Should I go for it?
I better shake this. Yikes!
I gotta get my head in the game
You gotta get your head in the game
Come on, get my head in the game
I gotta get my head in the game
You gotta get your head in the game
- What team?
- Wildcats!
- Get your head in the game!
So, it seemed like you knew Troy Bolton.
Not really.
He was just showing me around.
Well, Troy usually doesn't
interact with new students.
- Why not?
- Well, it's pretty much basketball 24/7 with him.
- That should be 16 over pi.
- Yes, Ms Montez?
I'm sorry, I was just...
Shouldn't the second equation
read 16 over pi?
16 over pi?
That's quite impossible.
I stand corrected.
And welcome aboard.
- Catch you later, guys.
- OK.
Troy Bolton was looking at our audition list.
Again?
You know, he was hanging around with that
new girl and they were both looking at the list.
There's something freaky about her.
Where did she say she was from?
Wow! An Einsteinette. So why do you think
she's interested in our musical?
I'm not sure that she is. And we needn't
concern ourselves with amateurs.
But there is no harm in making certain
that Gabriella's welcome to school activities
that are... well, appropriate for her.
After all,
she loves pi.
Gold. More gold.
Paint, paint. Let's go.
The answer is yes!
Our scholastic decathlon team
has its first competition next week,
and there is certainly a spot for you.
- Where did those come from?
- Didn't you put them in my locker?
- Of course not.
- Oh. Well, we'd love to have you on our team.
We meet almost every day after school.
Please?
I need to catch up on the curriculum here
before I think about joining any clubs.
What a perfect way to get caught up -
meeting with the smartest kids in school.
- What a generous offer, Taylor.
- So many new faces in detention today.
I hope you don't make a habit of it, but
the drama club can always use an extra hand.
And while we are working, let us probe
the mounting evils of cellphones.
Come on, guys, huddle up!
We got two weeks to the big game.
Where's Troy and Chad?
Don't make me ask again.
- Where's Troy and Chad?!
- Detention.
Perhaps the most heinous example of
cellphone abuse is ringing in the theatre.
What temerity!
The theatre is a temple of art.
A precious cornucopia of creative energy.
Where's my team, Darbus?
- What the heck are those two doing in a tree?
- It's called crime and punishment, Bolton.
Beside, proximity to the arts
is cleansing for the soul.
Can we have a talk, please?
And you two, in the gym, now!
If they have to paint sets for detention,
they could do it tonight, not during my practice.
If these were theatre performers instead of
athletes, would you seek special treatment?
Darbus, we are days away
from our biggest game of the year.
And we, Bolton, are in the midst of our
auditions for our winter musicale as well.
This school is about more than
just young men in baggy shorts
flinging balls for touchdowns!
Baskets! They shoot baskets.
Stop! Guys. Listen.
You've been having this argument since
the day you both started teaching here.
We are one school, one student body,
one faculty. Can we not agree on that?
So, Coach, how's the team lookin'?
Troy got 'em whipped into shape?
West High Knights have knocked us out
of the play-offs three years running,
and now we are one game away from
taking that championship right back from 'em.
It's time to make our stand.
The team is you.
You are the team.
And this team does not exist unless each
and every one of you is fully focused on our goal.
Am I clear?
- Hey, what team?
- Wildcats!
- What team?
- Get your head in the game!
We've never made it past the first round
of the scholastic decathlon.
You could be our answered prayer.
I'm gonna focus on my studies this semester
and help my mom get the new house organized.
Maybe next year.
What do you know about Troy Bolton?
Troy?
I wouldn't consider myself an expert
on that particular subspecies,
however, unless you speak cheerleader,
as in:
"Oh, my gosh! Isn't Troy Bolton
just the hottie super-bum?"
He's so beautiful.
- See what I mean?
- I guess I don't know how to speak cheerleader.
Which is why we exist in an alternate
universe to Troy the basketball boy.
Have you tried to get to know him?
Watch how it works in the cafeteria
tomorrow when you have lunch with us.
Unless you'd rather sit with the cheerleaders
and discuss the importance of firm nail beds.
My nail beds are history.
Sister!
- I still don't understand this whole detention
thing. - It was my fault. I'm sorry, Dad.
Cross court.
You know, Darbus will take any opportunity to
bust my chops. And that includes yours too.
Hey, Dad?
Did you ever think about trying something new,
but were afraid of what your friends might think?
You mean like going left?
You're doing fine. Come on.
Well, no.
I mean, what if you wanna try
something really new
and it's a total disaster
and all your friends laugh at you?
Well, then maybe they're
not really your friends.
I mean, that was my whole point about team today. You guys
gotta look out for each other, and you're the leader.
- Yeah, but, Dad, I'm not talking... - There's gonna
be college scouts at our game next week, Troy.
Know what a scholarship
is worth these days?
- A lot.
- Yeah. Focus, Troy, come on.
All right.
Just something for you.
Well, I expect we all learned our homeroom
manners yesterday, people, correct?
If not, we have some dressing rooms
that need painting.
Now, a few announcements.
This morning during free period will be
your chance for the musicale auditions,
both single and pairs.
I will be in the theatre until noon
for those of you bold enough to extend
the wingspan of your creative spirit.
What time is she due back
on the mother ship?
...discussing the importance of Shakespeare.
- Yo, what's up, man?
- Hey. What's up?
Hey. So, look. The whole team's
hitting the gym during free period.
- What do you want to have us run?
- Dude, you know what? I can't make it.
- I gotta catch up on some homework.
- What?
Hello. It's only the second day back.
I'm not even behind on homework yet.
And, you know, I've been behind
on homework since preschool.
That's hilarious.
I'll catch you later.
Homework?
There's no way.
What is he doing?
How's it going, man?
Short cut.
I'm late for class.
That's good, just leave it here.
This is where the true expression
of the artist is realized.
Where inner truth is revealed
through the actor's journey, where...
- Was that a cellphone?
- Is it mine?
No, ma'am. That was the warning bell.
Those wishing to audition must understand
that time is of the essence.
We have many roles to cast
and final callbacks will be next week.
First, you will sing a few bars
and I will tell give you a sense
of whether or not
the theatre is your calling.
Better to hear it from me now
than from your friends later.
Our composer, Kelsi Nielsen,
will accompany you
and be available for rehearsals
prior to callbacks.
Shall we?
It's hard to believe that I couldn't see
That you were always right beside me
This feeling like no other
I want you to know
Yes, thank you.
Next!
It's hard to believe
That I couldn't sneeze... see
That you were always right there next to...
beside me
Alan, I admire your pluck.
As to your singing...
That's a wonderful tie
you're wearing. Next!
It's hard to believe that I couldn't see
That you were always there beside me
This feeling's like no other
I want you to know
Stop.
...so lonely before I finally found
What I've been looking
For
Ah, Cyndra.
What courage to pursue a note that has
not been accessed in the natural world.
Bravo. Uh, brava.
Perhaps the spring musicale.
- It's hard to believe that I could not see
- Couldn't see
- That you were right beside me
- Beside me
- Thought I was alone
- Alone
- With no one to hold
- To hold
- But you were right beside me
- Beside me
Well, that was just... very disturbing.
Go see a counsellor.
Next!
Hey.
So you decided to sign up for something?
- No. You?
- No.
Why are you hiding behind a mop?
- Your friends don't know you're here, right?
- Right.
Thank you. Next.
Ms Darbus is a little harsh.
The Wildcat superstar's afraid?
No, no. I'm not afraid, I...
I'm just scared.
Me too. Hugely.
And for the lead roles of Minnie and Arnold
we only have one couple signed up.
Sharpay and Ryan, I think it might
be useful for you to give us a sense
of why we gather in this hallowed hall.
What key?
We had our rehearsal pianist
do an arrangement.
Go!
It's hard to believe that I couldn't see
You were always there beside me
Thought I was alone with no one to hold
But you were always right beside me
This feeling's like no other
I want you to know
I've never had someone
that knows me like you do
The way you do
I've never had someone
as good for me as you
No one like you
So lonely before I finally found
What I've been looking for
So good to be seen
So good to be heard
Don't have to say a word
Forso long I was lost
So good to be found
I'm lovin' having you around
This feeling's like no other
I want you to know
I've never had someone
that knows me like you do
The way you do
I've never had someone
as good for me as you
No one like you
So lonely before I finally found
What I've been looking for
I told you not to do the jazz squares.
It's a crowd favourite.
Everybody loves a good jazz square.
Well...
Are there any last-minute sign-ups?
Don't be discouraged. The theatre club
needs more than just singers. It needs fans too.
Buy tickets.
Actually, if you do the part with that
particular song, I imagined it much slow...
If we do the part?
Kelsi, my sawed-off Sondheim,
I've been in 17 school productions,
and how many times
have your compositions been selected?
- This would be the first.
- Which tells us what?
- That I need to write you more solos?
- No.
It tells us that you do not offer direction,
suggestion or commentary.
And you should be thankful
that me and Ryan are here
to lift your music
out of its current obscurity.
- Are we clear?
- Yes, ma'am. I mean, Sharpay.
Nice talking to you.
Any last-minute sign-ups?
- We should go.
- No? Good. Done.
I'd like to audition, Ms Darbus.
Timeliness means something in the world
of theatre, young lady.
The individual auditions are long, long over
and there are simply no other pairs.
I'll sing with her.
Troy Bolton?
Where is your sports posse,
or whatever it's called?
Team.
But I'm here alone.
Actually, I'm here to sing with her.
Yes, well, we take these shows
very seriously here at East High.
I called for the pairs audition,
and you didn't respond.
Free period is now over.
- She has an amazing voice.
- Perhaps the next musicale.
So, you're a composer?
You wrote the song
Ryan and Sharpay just sang?
And the entire show?
Well, that's really cool.
I - I can't wait to hear the rest of the show.
So, why are you so afraid
of Ryan and Sharpay?
- I mean, it is your show.
- It is?
Isn't the composer of a show
kind of like the playmaker in basketball?
Playmaker?
You know, the one who makes
everyone else look good.
I mean, without you there is no show.
You're the playmaker here, Kelsi.
I am?
Do you wanna hear how the duet's
supposed to sound?
It's hard to believe that I couldn't see
You were always there beside me
Thought I was alone with no one to hold
But you were always right beside me
This feeling's like no other
I want you to know
That I've never had someone
that knows me like you do
The way you do
And I've never had someone
as good for me as you
No one like you
So lonely before I finally found
What I've been looking for
Wow. That's nice.
Bolton, Montez - you have a callback.
Kelsi, give them the duet from
the second act. Work on it with them.
All right. If you guys wanna rehearse, I'm usually
here during free period and after school,
and even sometimes during biology class.
You can come and rehearse any time.
Or you can come to my house for breakfast.
I have a piano, we can rehearse there.
After school, before school -
whatever works. After basketball class...
What?
Callback?!
"Callback for roles Arnold and Minnie
next Thursday, 3.30 p.m."
"Ryan and Sharpay Evans,
Gabriella Montez and Troy Bolton."
Is this some kind of joke?
They didn't even audition!
- Maybe we're being punk'd.
- What?
Maybe we're being filmed right now.
Maybe we'll get to meet Ashton!
Shut up, Ryan!
What's wrong?
What?
How dare she sign up?! I've already picked out
the colours for my dressing room.
And she hasn't even asked our permission
to join the drama club.
- Someone's gotta tell her the rules.
- Exactly.
And what are the rules?
You can bet there's nothin' but net
When I am in a zone and on a roll
But I got a confession,
my own secret obsession
And it's making me lose control
Everybody gather round
Well, if Troy can tell his secret,
then I can tell mine. I bake.
- What?
- I love to bake.
Strudels, scones, even apple pandowdy.
Not another sound
Someday I hope to make
the perfect crème brûlée.
No, no, no, no
No, no, no
Stick to the stuff you know
If you wanna be cool
follow one simple rule
Don't mess with the flow, no, no
Stick to the status quo
Look at me and what do you see?
Intelligence beyond compare
But inside I am stirring,
something strange is occurring
It's a secret I need to share
Open up, dig way down deep
Hip-hop is my passion.
I love to pop and lock and jam and break.
Is that even legal?
Not another peep
It's just dancing. Sometimes I think
it's cooler than homework.
No, no, no, no
No, no, no
Stick to the stuff you know
It is better by far
to keep things as they are
Don't mess with the flow, no, no
Stick to the status quo
Listen well, I'm ready to tell
About a need that I cannot deny
Dude, there's no explanation
for this awesome sensation
But I'm ready to let it fly
Speak your mind and you'll be heard
All right. If Troy wants to be a singer,
then I'm coming clean. I play the cello.
Awesome! What is it?
- A saw?
- No, dude, it's like a giant violin.
Not another word
- Do you have to wear a costume?
- Coat and tie.
No, no, no, no
No, no, no
Stick to the stuff you know
If you wanna be cool,
follow one simple rule
Don't mess with the flow, no, no
Stick to the status quo
No, no, no
Stick to the stuff you know
It is better by far
to keep things as they are
Don't mess with the flow, no, no
Stick to the status quo
This is not what I want
This is not what I planned
And I just gotta say
I do not understand
Something is really
Something's not right
Really wrong
And we've gotta get things back
where they belong
- We can do it
- Gotta play
- Stick with what you know
- We can do it
- Hip-hop hooray
- She has got to go
- We can do it
- Crème brûlée
Keep your voice down low
- Not another peep
- No
- Not another word
- Not another sound
- No
Everybody quiet!
- Why is everybody staring at you?
- Not me, you.
Because of the callbacks?
I can't have people staring at me. I really can't.
No, no, no, no
Stick to the stuff you know
If you want to be cool,
follow one simple rule
Don't mess with the flow, no, no
Stick to the status quo
No, no, no
Stick to the stuff you know
It is better by far
to keep things as they are
Don't mess with the flow, no, no
Stick to the status,
stick to the status
Stick to the status quo
I am so sorry.
You do not want to get into that, man.
Too much drama.
- Yeah.
- What is going on here?
Look at this! That Gabriella girl
just dumped her lunch on me!
On purpose. It's all part of their plan
to ruin our musical.
And Troy and his basketball robots
are obviously behind it.
Why do you think he auditioned?
After all the hard work
you've put into the show.
It just doesn't seem right.
- What's up?
- What's up? Let's see.
You missed free period workout yesterday
to audition for some heinous musical.
And now suddenly people are confessing.
Yeah, and Zeke.
Zeke is baking, crème brûlée.
What's that?
It's a creamy custard-like filling with
a caramelized surface. It's really satisfying.
Shut up, Zeke.
Look. Do you see
what's happening here, man?
Our team is coming apart
because of your singing thing.
Look. Even the drama geeks and the brainiacs
suddenly think that they can talk to us.
- Look. The skater dudes are mingling.
- Yo. - Yo.
Suddenly people think that they can do
other stuff. Okay, stuff that's not their stuff.
They've got you thinking about show tunes,
when we've got a play-off game next week.
Heads up.
All right, Bolton.
Cards on the table right now.
You're tweaked because I put your stars
in detention and now you're getting even.
- What are you talking about, Darbus?
- Your all-star son turned up at my audition.
Now, I give every student an even chance,
which is a long and honourable tradition
in the theatre.
Something that you wouldn't understand.
But if he is planning some sort of
a practical joke in my chapel of the arts...
- Troy doesn't even sing.
- Well, you're wrong about that.
But I will not allow my Twinkle Town
musicale to be made into farce.
- Twinkle Town ?
- See?
I knew it. I knew it!
Sounds like a winner.
Good luck on Broadway.
Is Sharpay really, really mad at me?
I said I was sorry.
Look. No one has beaten out Sharpay
for a musical since kindergarten.
I wasn't trying to beat anyone out. We
didn't even audition, we were just singing.
You won't convince Sharpay of that.
I'm telling you.
If that girl could figure out a way to play both Romeo
and Juliet, her own brother would be aced out of a job.
I told you, it just happened.
But I liked it.
A lot.
Did you ever feel like there's
this whole other person inside of you
just looking for a way to come out?
Not really. No.
Let's go.
Hey, Sharpay. I just thought since
Troy Bolton's gonna be in your show...
Troy Bolton is not in my show.
OK. Well, I just thought maybe you could
watch me play ball sometime or something.
- I'd rather stick pins in my eyes.
- Wouldn't that be awfully uncomfortable?
Evaporate, tall person!
I bake.
If that helps.
Wow!
- It's like a jungle up here.
- Yeah, just like that cafeteria.
I just humiliated myself
into the next century.
- No! Come on.
- So this is your private hideout?
Yeah. Thanks to the science club. Which
means my buddies don't even know it exists.
You pretty much have the school wired,
don't you, Troy?
Seems to me like everyone on campus
wants to be your friend.
Unless we lose.
I'm sure it's tricky being the coach's son.
Makes me practise
a little harder, I guess.
- I don't know what he's gonna say when he
finds out about the singing. - You worried?
My parents' friends are always saying:
"Your son's the basketball guy."
"You must be so proud."
Sometimes I don't wanna be
the "basketball guy".
I just wanna be a guy. You know?
I saw the way you treated Kelsi
at the audition yesterday.
Do your friends know that guy?
- To them, I'm the playmaker dude.
- Then they don't know enough about you, Troy.
At my other schools
I was the freaky math girl.
It's cool coming here and being
anyone I wanna be.
When I was singing with you
I just felt like a girl.
You even look like one too.
Do you remember in kindergarten how you'd
meet a kid and know nothing about them,
then 10 seconds later you're playing
like you're best friends
because you didn't have
to be anything but yourself?
- Yeah.
- Singing with you felt like that.
Well, I never thought about singing.
That's for sure.
Till you.
So you really wanna do the callbacks?
Hey. Just call me freaky callback boy.
You're a cool guy, Troy.
But not for the reasons your friends think.
And thanks for showing me
your top-secret hiding place.
Like kindergarten.
We're soarin'
Flyin'
But your faith
Gives me strength
Strength to believe
Breakin'...
Creating space between us
There's not a star in heaven that we...
Flyin'
Let's go, guys. Make it sharp.
To the chest. To the chest, come on. Pop it.
Come on, guys.
Step with it. Let's go.
Come on, move it.
Let's go.
Come on, guys, focus. Focus.
Get your head in the game.
Move it.
- You seen Troy?
- No, Coach.
Again, let's go!
That's it, guys. Hit the showers.
Good hustle. Let's see that in the game.
I think I'm gonna stay a while.
Work on some free throws.
Well, since you missed practice, I think your
team deserves a little effort from you today.
Wow.
So this is your real stage.
Yeah. I guess you could call it that.
Or just a smelly gym.
Don't tell me you're good at hoops too.
You know, I once scored 41 points
on a league championship game.
No way.
Yeah, and the same day, I invented
the space shuttle and microwave popcorn.
Microwave popcorn.
Funny.
- I've been rehearsing with Kelsi.
- Me too. And, by the way,
I missed practice. So if I get kicked off
the team it should be on your conscience.
- Hey, I wasn't the one who told you...
- Gabriella, chill.
Hey, that's travelling.
No, that's really bad travelling.
Miss! I'm sorry, this is a closed practice.
- Dad, come on. Practice is over.
- Not till the last player leaves the gym. Team rule.
I'm sorry, sir.
- Dad, this is Gabriella Montez.
- Your detention buddy.
I'll see you later, Troy.
Nice meeting you, Coach Bolton.
You as well, Ms Montez.
Dad, detention was my fault,
not hers.
You haven't missed practice in three years.
That girl shows up...
That girl is named Gabriella.
And she's very nice.
Well, helping you miss practice doesn't make
her very nice. Not in my book or your team's.
Dad, she's not a problem.
She's just a girl.
But you're not just a guy, Troy.
You're the team leader.
What you do affects not only this team,
but the entire school.
And without you completely focused,
we're not gonna win next week.
The championship games -
they don't come along all the time.
- They're something special.
- Yeah, well, a lot of things are special, Dad.
But you're a playmaker,
not a singer, right?
Did you ever think maybe I could be both?
What?
Let's go.
What spell has this elevated-IQ
temptress girl cast
that suddenly makes you
wanna be in a musical?
Look, I just did it. Who cares?
Who cares? How about your
most loyal best friend?
- Quiet in here, Mr Danforth.
- It's him, Ms Falstaff, not me.
Look, you're a hoops dude,
not a musical singer person.
Have you ever seen Michael Crawford
on a cereal box?
- Who's Michael Crawford?
- Exactly my point.
He was the Phantom of the Opera
on Broadway.
Now, my mom, she's seen
that musical 27 times,
and she put Michael Crawford's picture
in our refrigerator. Yeah, not on it, in it.
So my point is, if you play basketball,
you're gonna end up on the cereal box.
If you sing in musicals, you're gonna
end up in my mom's refrigerator.
Why would she put his picture
in her refrigerator?
One of her crazy diet ideas. Look. I don't
attempt to understand the female mind, Troy.
It's frightening territory.
How can you expect the rest of us
to be focused on a game
if you're off somewhere in leotards
singing "Twinkle Town"?
No one said anything about leotards.
Not yet, my friend, but just you wait.
Look, we need you, Captain.
Big time.
- Mr Danforth.
- I tried to tell him, Ms Falstaff.
Really tried.
Something isn't right.
Hey. Look, we need to talk.
Go.
They must be trying to figure out a way to make
sure Troy and Gabriella actually beat us out.
Now, the jocks rule most of the school,
but if they get Troy into the musical, then
they've conquered the entire student body.
And if those science girls get Gabriella
hooked up with Troy Bolton,
the scholastic club goes from drool to cool.
Ryan, we need to save our show
from people
who don't know the difference
between a Tony Award and Tony Hawk.
Do you really think that's gonna work?
It's the only way to save Troy and Gabriella
from themselves.
- So we on?
- Yeah.
- Good. So we start tomorrow, then.
- OK, the first thing.
Nice.
- Let's go.
- Cool.
Okay. So, my watch is 7.45 Mountain
Standard time. We synced?
- Whatever. - All right. Then we're on a
go mode for lunch period, exactly 12.05.
Yes, Chad, we're a go.
But we're not Charlie's Angels, OK?
I can dream, can't I?
"Spider" Bill Netrine.
Class of '72. He was the MVP
the league championship game.
Sam Nedler, class of '02.
Also known as "Sammy Slamma Jamma".
Captain, MVP of the league
championship team.
The "Thunder Clap" Hap Hadden, '95.
Led the Wildcats to back-to-back
city championships. A legend.
Yes. Legends, one and all.
But do you think that any of these
Wildcat legends became legends
by getting involved in musical auditions
just days before the league championships?
- Get your head in the game!
- No.
These Wildcat legends became legends
because they never took their eye off the prize.
- Get your head in the game!
- Now,
who was the first sophomore ever
to make starting varsity?
Troy!
- So who voted him our team captain this year?
- Us!
And who is gonna get
their sorry butts kicked
in Friday's championship game
if Troy's worried about an audition?
- We are.
- Guys, come on.
I mean, there's 12 people
on this team, not just me.
Just 12?
Oh, no.
I think you're forgetting about one
very important 13th member of our squad.
- My dad.
- Yes, Troy.
Wildcat basketball champion,
class of 1981.
Champion, father, and now coach.
It's a winning tradition like no other.
From lowly Neanderthal and Cro-Magnon,
to early warriors, medieval knights,
all leading up to...
lunkhead basketball man.
Yes, our culture worshipped the aggressor
throughout the ages,
and we end up with spoiled,
overpaid bonehead athletes
who contribute little to civilization
other than slam dunks and touchdowns.
That is the inevitable world
of Troy Bolton.
But the path of the mind,
the path we're on,
ours is the path that
has brought us these people:
Eleanor Roosevelt, Frida Kahlo,
Sandra Day O'Connor,
Madame Curie,
Jane Goodall, Oprah Winfrey,
and so many others
who the world reveres.
But what has...? You know,
I've got Kelsi waiting for me to rehearse.
Gabriella! Sorry.
Troy Bolton represents
one side of evolution.
And our side, the side of education
and accomplishment,
is the future of civilization.
This is the side where you belong.
Guys, if you don't know that I'll put 110% of
my guts into that game, then you don't know me.
- But we just thought...
- No, I'll tell you what I thought.
I thought that you're my friends.
Win together, lose together, teammates.
But suddenly the girl.
And the singing.
Man, I'm for the team! I've always been
for the team. She's just someone I met.
All right, the singing thing is nothing.
Probably just a way to keep my nerves down.
I don't know. It means nothing to me.
You're my guys and this is our team.
Gabriella is not important.
I'll forget about her, I'll forget the audition,
and we'll go out and get that championship.
- Everyone happy now?
- Behold lunkhead basketball man.
So, Gabriella, we'd love to have you
for the scholastic decathlon.
Did you wanna grab some lunch?
Well, we'll be there if you wanna come.
- Wildcats!
- Get your head in the game!
Go, Wildcats!
Everybody say it now
Wildcats everywhere
Wave your hands up in the air
That's the way we do it
Let's get to it
Time to show the world
Wildcats sing along
Yeah, you really got it goin' on
Wildcats in the house
Everybody say it now
Troy! Troy! Troy! Troy! Troy!
Troy! Troy! Troy! Troy! Troy! Troy!
It's funny when you find yourself
Looking from the outside
I'm standing here but all I want
Is to be over there
Why did I let myself believe
Miracles could happen?
'Cause now I have to pretend
That I don't really care
I thought you were my fairy tale
A dream when I'm not sleeping
A wish upon a star that's coming true
But everybody else could tell
That I confused my feelings with the truth
When there was me and you
I swore I knew the melody
That I heard you singing
And when you smiled you made me feel
Like I could sing along
But then you went
and changed the words
Now my heart is empty
I'm only left with used-to-bes
And once upon a song
Now I know you're not a fairy tale
And dreams were meant for sleeping
And wishes on a star
Just don't come true
'Cause now even I can tell
That I confused my feelings with the truth
Because I liked the view
When there was me and you
I can't believe that I could be so blind
It's like you were floating
while I was falling
And I didn't mind
Because I liked the view
I thought you felt it too
When there was me and you
Hey. How you doin'?
Listen. There's something
I wanna talk to you about.
And here it is - I know what it's like
to carry a load with your friends.
I get it. You've got your boys, Troy.
It's OK. So we're good.
Good about what? I was gonna
talk to you about the final callbacks.
I don't wanna do the callbacks either.
Who are we trying to kid?
You've got your team and now I've got mine.
I'll do the scholastic decathlon
and you'll win the championships.
It's where we belong.
- Go Wildcats.
- But I...
Me neither.
Gabriella?
Go Wildcats!
Hey, Captain.
Okay.
- What's with Troy? - Hey. What happened?
- Don't worry about it.
Hey.
Troy! Hey.
Hey...
We just had another team meeting.
Oh. Wonderful.
We had a team meeting about how
we haven't been acting like a team.
I mean us, not you.
- Look. About the singing thing...
- Look. Dude, I don't even wanna talk about it.
We just want you to know that we're
gonna be there. Okay? Cheering for you.
Yeah, if singing is something you wanna do, we
should be boosting you up, not tearing you down.
Yeah. I mean, win or lose,
we're teammates.
Okay? That's what we're about. Even if you
turn out to be the worst singer in the world.
Which, you know, we don't know,
because we haven't actually heard you sing.
And you're not gonna hear me sing, guys.
Because Gabriella won't even talk to me,
and I don't know why.
We do.
I baked these fresh today.
You'll probably want to try one
before we tell you the rest.
Gabriella, we were jerks.
No, we were worse than jerks
because we were mean jerks.
We thought that Troy and the whole
singing thing was killing our chances
of having you on
the scholastic decathlon team.
I heard what he had to say.
I'm on your team now. Done.
No, not done.
We knew that Chad could get Troy to say things
to make you wanna forget about the callbacks.
We planned it.
And we're embarrassed and sorry.
No one forced Troy to say anything.
And you know what? It's OK.
We should be preparing for
the decathlon now, so it's time to move on.
No, it's not OK.
The decathlon is whatever, but how you
feel about us, and even more, Troy -
that's what really matters.
We tried.
Hi.Just came to say I'm sorry.
- Hi, Mrs Montez, I'm Troy Bolton.
- Troy!
Gabriella is kind of busy with homework
and such, so now's not really a good time.
I made a mistake, Mrs Montez, and I
would really like to let Gabriella know that.
Could you tell her that I came by to see her?
I will, Troy.
- Goodnight.
- Goodnight. Thank you.
- Hello? - What you heard the
other day, none of that is true.
I was sick of my friends
riding me about singing with you,
so I said things I knew would shut them up.
I didn't mean any of it.
You sounded pretty convincing to me.
Listen. The guy you met on vacation is way more
me than the guy who said those stupid things.
Troy, the whole singing thing is making
the school wack.
You said so yourself. Everyone's
treating you differently because of it.
Maybe that's because I don't wanna
only be the basketball guy any more.
They can't handle it.
That's not my problem, it's theirs.
- How about your dad?
- And it's not about my dad.
This is about how I feel,
and I'm not letting the team down.
They let me down.
So I'm gonna sing. What about you?
I don't know, Troy.
Well, you need to say yes.
Because I brought you something.
What do you mean?
Turn around.
This could be the start of something new
It feels so right to be here with you
And now, lookin' in your eyes
I feel in my heart
The start of something...
new.
It's a pairs audition.
Yeah!
Zn4, and by doing that,
you end up with two, and two.
Got it?
Yes!
What's happening?
Guys, come here.
Go ahead and put five grams of this in.
And that causes it to change
from an acidic state,
causing the colour
to change from pink to blue.
Just like those pH test strips.
Gotta go.
See you guys later!
You're late.
...strength to believe
We're soarin'
Flyin'
There's not a star in...
If we're tryin'
Yeah, we're breakin' free
Wow.
They sound good.
Like a wave the ocean just...
We have to do something.
OK. Our callback is on Thursday,
and the basketball game
and scholastic decathlon are on Friday.
Too bad all these events weren't
happening on the same day,
at the same time.
Well, that wouldn't work out because then
Troy and Gabriella wouldn't be able to make...
I'm proud to call you my sister.
I know.
I don't want to hear any more
about Troy Bolton and that Montez girl.
So, if you're telling me
as copresidents of the drama club
that changing the callbacks would be
what's best for our theatre programme,
then I might actually agree with you.
Is that a yes?
Bop bop bop, bop to the top
And wipe away your inhibitions
Stump stump stump, do the rump
And strut your stuff
Bop bop bop, straight to the top
Going for the glory
No problem at all.
It was crazy, man.
- Callbacks the same time as the game?
- And the scholastic decathlon.
- Why would they do that?
- I smell a rat named Darbus.
Actually, I think it's two rats,
neither of them named Darbus.
Do you know something about this,
small person?
Ms Darbus might think
that she's protecting the show,
but Ryan and Sharpay are pretty much
only concerned with protecting themselves.
Do you know what I'm gonna do
to those two show dogs?
Nothing. We're not gonna do anything
to them. Except sing, maybe.
All right. Now, this is only gonna happen
if we all work together.
- Now, who's in?
- You know I'm in.
A pi pie.
My goodness!
What? Thank you!
- We have something for you too.
- Yeah, come here, look.
It's an equation.
Stay right there. Watch.
From our team, to yours.
G-o
d-r-a-m-a
c-l-u-b.
Exclamation point.
Well, seems we Wildcats are in
for an interesting afternoon.
- Go. Go.
- G-o-d...
Godra... Godra...
Godray...?
Drame?
How you feeling?
- Nervous.
- Yeah, me too.
- Wish I could suit up and play alongside of you.
- Hey, you had your turn.
You know what I want from you today?
- The championship.
- That'll come or it won't.
What I want is for you to have fun.
I know all about the pressure, and probably
too much of it has come from me.
'Cause what I really want is to see my son
having the time of his life
playing the game we both love.
You give me that, and I will sleep with a smile
on my face no matter how the score comes out.
Thanks, Coach.
Dad.
Welcome to
the tenth annual Scholastic Decathlon.
East High Wildcats
versus West High Knights.
Hello! Right here, right here. Yes.
Stop!
- I trust you.
- Energy.
And now, introducing
your East High Wildcats!
Let's go! Go!
...for this championship game between
East High and West High. This is sure to be...
Casting the leads of a show is both
a challenge and a responsibility.
A joy and a burden.
I commend you and all other young artists
who hold out for the moon,
the sun and the stars.
Shall we soar together?
Sharpay and Ryan.
I believe in dreamin',
shootin ' for the stars
Baby, to be number one
you've got to raise the bar
Kickin' and a-scratchin',
grindin' out my best
Anything it takes to climb
the ladder of success
Work our tails off every day
Gotta bump the competition
Blow them all away
Yeah, we're gonna
Bop bop bop, bop to the top
Slip and slide and ride that rhythm
Jump and hop, hop till we drop
And start again
Zip zap zop, pop like a mop
Scoot around the corner
Move it to the groove
till the music stops
Do the bop bop, bop to the top
Don't ever stop
Bop to the top
Gimme, gimme, shimmy, shimmy
Wildcats!
...for the coveted championship trophy!
East High wins the opening tip,
pushing the ball up the court.
East High.
We did it!
Great job.
Shake some booty and turn around
Flash a smile in their direction
- Show some muscle
- Do the hustle
All right, Wildcats,
time for an orderly exit from the gym.
And West High pushes the ball around
the perimeter on the offensive end.
Nice ball movement by West High.
Driving the lane.
Shot is up and...
We seem to be experiencing
some technical difficulties.
We've got a timeout on the court.
We have a problem.
Stop the game. Stop the game.
The referee has signalled timeout.
Everyone please remain calm.
Go, go, go, go, go.
I'm sure we'll get this figured out real soon.
In the meantime, for safety regulations,
we need to all make an orderly exit
from the gym, please.
Thank you.
Yeah, we're gonna
Bop bop bop, bop to the top
Wipe away your inhibitions
Stump stump stump, do the rump
And strut your stuff
Bop bop bop, straight to the top
Going for the glory
We'll keep stepping up
and we just won't stop
Stop
Till we reach the top
Bop to the top
Hi! Call me.
Do you see why we love
the theatre, people?
Well done!
Troy Bolton, Gabriella Montez.
- Troy? Gabriella?
- They'll be here.
The theatre, as I have often pointed out,
waits for no one. I'm sorry.
Well, we are done here.
Congratulations to all.
The cast list will be posted.
No, wait! Wait, Ms Darbus! Wait!
- We're ready, we can sing.
- I called your names, twice.
- Ms Darbus, please. Please.
- Rules are rules.
We'll be happy to do it again for
our fellow students, Ms Darbus.
I don't know what's going on here,
but in any event, it's far too late
and we have not got a pianist.
- Well, that's showbiz.
- We'll sing without a piano.
No, you won't.
Pianist here, Ms Darbus.
- You really don't wanna do that.
- Yes, I really do.
Ready on stage.
Now, that's showbiz.
I can't do it, Troy,
not with all these people staring at me.
Hey, hey, hey. Look at me.
Look at me, right at me. Right at me.
Like the first time we sang together.
Remember?
Like kindergarten.
We're soarin'
Flyin'
There's not a star in heaven
that we can't reach
If we're tryin'
So we're breakin' free
You know the world can see us
In a way that's different than who we are
Creating space between us
Till we're separate hearts
But your faith, it gives me strength
Strength to believe
- We're breakin' free
- We're soarin'
Flyin'
There's not a star in heaven
that we can't reach
If we're tryin'
Yeah, we're breakin' free
We're breakin ' free
Can you feel it building
Like a wave the ocean just can't control?
Connected by a feeling
In our very soul
Very soul
Rising till it lifts us up
So everyone can see
- We're breakin' free
- We're soarin'
Flyin'
There's not a star in heaven
that we can't reach
If we're tryin'
Yeah, we're breakin' free
We're breakin ' free
- Runnin'
- Climbin'
To get to that place
to be all that we can be
Now's the time
So we're breakin' free
- We're breakin' free
- Ooh, yeah
More than hope, more than faith
This is truth, this is fate
And together we see it comin'
More than you, more than me
Not a want, but a need
Both of us breakin' free
Soarin'
Flyin'
There's not a star in heaven
that we can't reach
If we're tryin'
Yeah, we're breakin' free
Breakin' free
We're runnin'
Climbin'
To get to that place
to be all that we can be
- Now's the time
- We're breakin' free
You know the world can see us
In a way that's different than who we are
- That's amazing!
- Amazing, yeah!
And West High pushin' the ball.
Fast break.
Looking for an open man.
But it's stolen by number 14,
headed back the other way!
East High has the ball!
Time is running down on the clock!
Looking for an open man.
Fake. Swing to the outside.
Ball on the perimeter.
Looks for a man on the inside.
Nice screen.
Shot's up.
And it's good! A 12-foot jump shot
as time expires for the victory!
East High has won the championship!
Your East High Wildcats are champions!
Congratulations, East High!
Troy! Troy! Troy! Troy! Troy!
- Congratulations.
- Thanks.
Coming through! Coming through!
Coming through!
- What team?
- Wildcats!
- Get your head in the game!
- Yeah!
- Yeah, bro!
- I'm proud of you, son.
- Thanks, Dad.
Bravo!
Brava!
- Troy, you're the man!
- No, you!
- Congratulations, Wildcat!
- What about your team?
We won too!
Yo. Team voted you
the game ball, Captain.
Yeah, thank you.
Thanks a lot. Yeah.
So, you're going with me
to the after-party, right?
- Like on a date?
- Must be your lucky day.
Chad just asked me out.
Well, congratulations.
I guess I'm going to be the understudy
in case you can't make one of the shows,
so... break a leg.
In theatre that means good luck.
Hey, Sharpay. I'm sorry you didn't get
the lead, but I think that you're really good.
- I admire you so much.
- And why wouldn't you? Now, bye-bye.
Wait. I baked you some cookies.
- Nice game.
- Thanks.
Composer, here's your game ball.
You deserve it, playmaker.
Yeah!
Here we go!
Together, together
Together, everyone
Come on, let's have some fun
Together, we're there for
each other every time
Together, together
Come on, let's do this right
Here and now it's time for celebration
I finally figured out
Yeah, yeah
That all our dreams have no limitations
That's what it's all about
Come on, now
Everyone is special in their own way
We make each other strong
Each other strong
We're not the same
We're different in a good way
Together's where we belong
We're all in this together
Once we know that we are,
we're all stars, and we see that
We're all in this together
And it shows
when we stand hand in hand
Make our dreams come true
Everybody now
Together, together
Together, everyone
Come on, let's have some fun
Together, we're there for
each other every time
Together, together
Come on, let's do this right
We're all here and speaking out
with one voice
We're gonna rock the house
Yeah, yeah
The party's on,
now everybody make some noise
Come on, scream and shout
We've arrived
Because we stuck together
Champions one and all
We're all in this together
Once we know that we are,
we're all stars, and we see that
We're all in this together
And it shows when we stand
hand in hand
Make our dreams come
We're all in this together
When we reach, we can fly
Know inside we can make it
We're all in this together
Once we see there's a chance
that we have and we take it
Wildcats sing along
Yeah, you really got it goin' on
Wildcats in the house
Everybody say it now
Wildcats everywhere
Wave your hands up in the air
That's the way we do it
Let's get to it
Time to show the world
Here we go!
We're all in this together
Once we know that we are,
we're all stars, and we see that
We're all in this together
And it shows when we stand
hand in hand
Make our dreams come true
We're all in this together
When we reach, we can fly
Know inside we can make it
We're all in this together
Once we see there's a chance
that we have and we take it
Wildcats everywhere
Wave your hands up in the air
That's the way we do it
Let's get to it
Come on, everyone!
Yeah!
Wildcats sing along
Yeah, you really got it goin' on
Wildcats in the house
Everybody say it now
Wildcats everywhere
Wave your hands up in the air
That's the way we do it
Let's get to it
Time to show the world
Wildcats sing along
Yeah, you really got it goin' on
Wildcats in the house
Everybody say it now
Wildcats everywhere
Wave your hands up in the air
That's the way we do it
Let's get to it
Time to show...
These cookies are genius!
The best things I've ever tasted.
Will you make some more for me, Zeke?
I might even make you a crème brûlée.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org